---
num: "h03"
desc: "Abstract Data Types"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-04-10 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-04-17 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "PS 10.3"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>
 
<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li> 

<li>Savitch makes the following observations in the introduction to
	Section 10.3:
	<p>"Unless ... defined and used with care, programmer-defined types can be used in unintuitive ways that make a program difficult to understand and difficult to modify. The best way to avoid these problems is ot make sure all the data types you define are ADTs. The way that you do this in C++ is to use classes, but not every class is an ADT. To make it an ADT you must define the class in a certain way..."</p>
  <ol>
  	<li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) What does ADT stand for?</li>
    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) According to Savitch, a <i>data type</i> consists of a collection of values, together with ... what?</li>
    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) According to Savitch, a data type is called an ADT if ... what?</li>
  </ol>
</li>



Savitch describes two ways of characterizing what makes a class an ADT: first he describes two things that should be completely separated, and then he describes three rules for achieving that separation.

<li> What are the two things that should be separated?
	<ul>
		<li>First thing: (4 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div></li>
		<li>Second thing: (4 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div></li>
	</ul>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li>What are the three rules for keeping those things separate? 
	<ul>
 		<li>Rule 1: (4 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div></li>
 		<li>Rule 2: (4 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div></li>
 		<li>Rule 3: (4 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div></li>
	</ul>
</li>
<li>(4 pts) When you define an ADT as a class, what items are considered
	part of the interface for the ADT? <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<li>(4 pts) When you define an ADT as a class, what items are considered
	part of the implementation for the ADT? <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div> </li>
</ol>




