---
num: "h05"
desc: "Recursive Algorithms"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-04-17 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-04-24 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "DS 9.1, PS 14.1 and 14.2"
---
<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

 <li> Activation records are stored on the "run-time stack".
 	<ol>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) Why is a "stack" an appropriate data structure for the storage of activation records?</li>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) What event is associated with the <code>push()</code> operation onto the run-time stack?</li>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) What event is associated with the <code>pop()</code> operation from the run-time stack?</li>
 	</ol>
 </li>

 <li> List two important pieces of information stored in an activation record:
 	<ol>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) 1.</li>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) 2.</li>
 	</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> There are two important parts to every simple recursive function: the base case, and the recursive call that makes progress towards the base case. (There are other forms of recursion, such as "mutual recursion", where <code>foo()</code> calls <code>bar()</code> and <code>bar()</code> calls <code>foo()</code>, but let's set those aside for the moment, and deal only with simple recursive functions). Something that can go wrong with recursion when it is used incorrectly is a stack overflow. Explain two different ways that a recursive function could be writen incorrectly that could leave to stack overflow. Hint: one has something to do with the base case, and the other has to do with the recursive call.
	<ol>
		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) 1.</li>
		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) 2.</li>
	</ol>
</li>

<li> (10 pts) Given a fairly common definition for a <code>struct Node</code> that can be used to make a linked list of int values, along with a conventional implementation of a function that prints the value of the linked list, one per line. Rewrite the function as a recursive function. Hint: the base case is an empty list — in that case, do nothing (just return). Recursive call should print the first element on the list, then recurse on the "rest" of the list.
</li>

<pre>
struct Node {
  int data;
  Node *next;
}

void printList(Node *head) {
   for (Node *p=head; p!=NULL; p=p->next) {
      cout << p->data << endl;
   } 
}
</pre>





