---
num: "h08"
desc: "Hashing"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-04-24 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-05-01 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "DS 12.2"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

  <li>From DS4 (12.2): There is a technique known as "double hashing".
  	<ol>
  		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) What is the problem that double hashing is designed to solve? <b>Briefly explain.</b></li>
  		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) How does double hashing solve that problem? <b>Briefly explain</b></li>
  	</ol>
  </li>

  <li>From DS 12.2: The abstract data type (ADT) known as a "dictionary" provides a way to look up keys and find values. We define these abstract operations for the ADT:
  	<ul>
  		<li> lookup(key) which returns either value, or an indication that the value is not present</li>
		<li> remove(key) which removes the item with that key (if it exists)</li>
		<li> insert(key,value) which inserts the new key, and the value (or replaces the value if it is already present)</li>
	</ul>
	<p></p>
We could implement a dictionary by having an array of (key,value) pairs, sorted by key. We could use binary search for lookup. We'd have to figure out a way to put new values into the sorted list, and remove values. Or we could use hashing, as described in DS 12.2:

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

	<ol>
	<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) If we use binary search on a sorted array, what is the worst case time for lookup(key) in terms of big-O? (No explanation needed; just state the answer)</li>
	<li style='margin-bottom:8em;'>(8 pts) If we use binary search on a sorted array, what is the worst case big-O time for remove(key)? This time, <b>briefly</b> explain your answer.</li>
	<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) If we use hash tables instead, what is the worst case big-O time for lookup(key)? Just state it.</li>
	<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) Is the worst case for lookup( key) for hash tables better or worse than the binary search approach?</li>
	<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) If we use hash tables instead, what is the average (expected) case big-O time for lookup(key)? Just state it.</li>
	<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(4 pts) Is the average (expected) case for lookup( key) for hash tables better or worse than the binary search approach?</li>
</ol>
</li>
