---
num: "h15"
desc: "Container Classes Review"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-05-15 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-05-22 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "DS Chapter 3, and the assert() function on p. 793"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

<li>
Chapter 3 is a chapter you likely already read during CMPSC 24, but we want to review the material now. You will likely have a deeper appreciation and understanding of the material now, from the perspective of greater familiarity with C++ classes, objects, algorithm analysis, and data structures. The questions below emphasize a few important points we are building on and reinforcing in CMPSC 32.   
<p></p>In particular, I want to make sure you can demonstrate that you understand:
<ul><li> the concept of a <code>typedef</code>, and the way it lays the foundation here for template classes.</li>
<li> the <code>std::size_t</code> data type and why it is used.</li>
<li> the idea of <em>value semantics</em> as used by the authors of DS (which is important to understanding copy constructor and overloaded = operator as discussed in DS).</li>
<li> how operator overloading works (the example of the <code>operator +</code> used in this chapter.</li>
<li> the way the <code>static</code> member constant is used to define a capacity.</li>
<li> the notion of a "partially filled array", i.e. occupancy vs. capacity</li>
<li> the circumstances in which a value type must have a default constructor (p. 110).</li>
<li> the way the <code>assert</code> macro is used in this code example.</li>
<li> short circuit evaluation as a guard against invalid operations (pp. 114-115).</li>
<li> the use of the STL multiset template class</li></ul>
<p>There are MANY more things in this chapter that are also important. Space and time prohibit me from asking a specific homework questions about each of them. I encourage to read the WHOLE chapter carefully rather than just skimming for the answers to the questions on the back, and be sure you understand <em>at least</em> all of the items listed above. I may ask you about <em>anything</em> in this chapter on the midterm exam (well, this should all be review by now), even if is not specifically covered on this homework assignment, but <em>especially</em> the items in the list above.
<p></p>After reviewing the chapter, answer these questions:
</p>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> (6 pts)  In the example <code>Bag</code> class in this chapter, the authors use the statement:

<pre>
   typedef int value_type;
</pre>
<p>What do the authors cite as the advantages of doing this typedef over just using <code>int</code> throughout the definition of the <code>Bag</code> class?
</p>
<div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div>
</li>

<li> (6 pts) The <code>size_t</code> type is frequently defined in C/C++ software.  What advantage does it have over just using <code>int</code>?  (Note: the textbook offers an explanation, and we'll accept the textbook's explanation as a sufficient answer, but if you want to really understand, you may need to do some research online on your own.)
<div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div>
</li>

<li> (6 pts) Another potential use of a typedef is to shorten a type. For example, we can have a function with this prototype that uses <code>std::pair&lt;double,double&gt;</code> to represent an (x,y) point in the cartesian plane:
<pre>
double distanceBetween(pair&lt;double,double&gt; p1, pair &lt;double,double&gt; p2);
</pre>
<p>Write a <code>typedef</code> statement that would allow us to write this as:
</p>
<pre>
   double distanceBetween(Point p1, Point p2);
</pre>
<div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div></li>

<li>The authors of DS frequently talk about the <em>value semantics</em> of a data type. At the top of figure 3.1, they indicate that the <code>typedef</code> for <code>value_type</code> may be any of the C++ built-in types (int, char, etc.) <b>OR</b> any type that meets four criteria.
 What are the four criteria that indicate what the type must meet? List them below.
 <p></p>
 <ol>
   <ul><li>(3 pt) <div style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#160;</div></li><li>(3 pt) <div style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#160;</div></li><li>(3 pt) <div style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#160;</div></li><li>(3 pt) <div style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#160;</div></li>
	<li> (5 pts) The textbook discussion goes on to explain that the assignment operator is NOT defined for every data type, and they cite an example. What example do they cite?
	<div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div>
	</li></ul>

</ol>

<li> (5 pts) What is the purpose of the <code>assert()</code> macro?
<div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div> </li>

