---
num: "h17"
desc: "Memory Concepts"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-05-22 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-05-29 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "CS32 Reader (p. 55 - 70)"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

 <li>  Object files (.o files) are organized in standard way to allow the linker to organize multiple source files into a single executable.   The reading discusses the five major sections of an object file.    Below, list the order of the five major sections in an object file. Accompany each with a one-sentence description and example of what belongs there. 
 <ul>
   <li> (3 pts) <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
 </ul>
</li>

<li>(5 pts) Referring to memory addresses, we distinguish between <b>physical</b> addresses and <b>logical/virtual</b> addresses. <b>BRIEFLY</b>, write a few sentences (not too many!) of sentences that describe each of these type of addresses.  Your answer should have <em>just enough</em> detail to make it clear to the grader that you understand the difference between these, and how they relate to each other. <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> Answer each part regarding <i>overflow</i>:
<p></p>
 <ol>
   <li> (2 pts) Briefly define what overflow in memory is. <div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div></li>
   <li> (2 pts) What is the mixed strategy C/C++ use when dealing with overflow? <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
 </ol>
</li>

<li>Linking is commonly thought of as the process by which separately compiled object modules (files) are combined into a single, runnable executable. This is somewhat misleading nomenclature, however, since linking is more properly thought of as a two stage process. Using the information in the reading, name and describe the two steps involved in linking. 
<br /><br />
<ol>
 <li> (5 pts) Briefly describe the first step:
 	<div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div></li>
 <li> (5 pts) Briefly describe the second step:
 	<div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div></li>
</ol>
</li>

<li> Suppose that a source file defines these three structs: <code>struct A { int a, double b, int c }; </code>, <code>struct B { char a, int b, w_char c }; </code> and <code>struct C { int a, int c, int b }; </code>.   For purposes of this problem, assume that sizeof(int) is 4, sizeof(double) is 8, sizeof(char) is 1, sizeof(w_char) is 2.    Also assume that ints and doubles must be aligned on word boundaries corresponding to their sizes, as explained in the reading.
<br /><br />
<ol>
<li>(2 pts) What is the value of sizeof(A)?  Explain your answer. <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div></li>
<li>(2 pts) What is the value of sizeof(B)?  Explain your answer. <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div></li>
<li>(2 pts) What is the value of sizeof(C)?  Explain your answer. <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div></li>
</ol>
</li>
