---
num: "h18"
desc: "Processes"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-05-29 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2018-06-05 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "CS32 Reader (p. 117 - 146)"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

 <li>(4 pts) Fill in the blanks, using the definition in the reading. Both are single words&#8212;the first starts with p, and the second starts with e.

<div style="margin-top:1em;">&#160;</div>
<p><b style="font-size:120%">A process is a __________________________ in __________________________</b>
</p>
</li>

<li>If you want to "suspend" a program that is running in a shell, in order to get to the shell prompt and do a few commands, then resume that program, what can you do?
<p></p>
<ol>
  <li> (4 pts) What do you type to suspend the current running program?  <div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div> </li>
  <li> (4 pts) What do you type to resume the suspended program? <div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div> </li>
</ol>
</li>

<li> The command <code>kill</code> is used to, as the name would suggest, manually end processes. <code>kill</code>'s primary function is to provide the user with control over processes that are running in the background and thus only accessible by a PID (process ID). <code>kill</code> features varying levels of ability to end process. Why is this fine-tuning useful? Answer the question by succinctly describing at least two different  modes of <code>kill</code> and when each might be useful.
<p></p>
<ol>
  <li> (5 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div> </li>
  <li> (5 pts) <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div> </li>
</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> Suppose you have a hello.cpp file that you've compiled into a binary called ./hello. As you know, you can run this with the steps shown below:   

<pre>
-bash-4.2$ ./hello
Hello, World
-bash-4.2$
</pre>

<p>In the steps shown, under the hood, somehow something called "fork and "exec" are involved in getting this program to actually start running. And there is some kind of "parent" and  "child", somehow involved. For each of the following, describe its role, relating it to these concepts. Be <b>brief</b> but be <b>just specific enough</b> that the grader has NO DOUBT that you've read and understood the discussion of these concepts in the reading, and how each of them relates to running a ./hello program.
</p>
<ol>
   <li> (3 pts) fork <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) exec <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) parent <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div> </li>
   <li> (3 pts) child <div style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</div> </li>
 </ol>
</li>

<li>The <code>ps</code> command and the <code>jobs</code> command both list processes. Write a few words that distinguishes between the ways that they are used, that is:
<p></p>
<ol>
  <li> (3 pts) What is a circumstance where <code>ps</code> is more appropriate than <code>jobs</code>?  <div style="margin-top:3em;">&#160;</div> </li>
  <li> (3 pts) What is a circumstance where <code>jobs</code> is more appropriate than <code>ps</code>?  <div style="margin-top:2em;">&#160;</div> </li>
</ol>
</li>


